Welcome everyone to the section on modules and packages in this lecture.
Don't start off by talking about pipeline with Pip.
Install Type-I is a repository for open source.
Third party Python packages.
And if you've worked of other programming languages it's similar to Ruby gen's in the Ruby world.
PH packages CPM for Perl and NPM for notes.
Yes so far we've really only use libraries that come internally of python and these are known as the
standard library or the built in libraries for Python.
Things like the math library.
Now there are many other libraries available that people have open source and shared on Type-I And these
are also called packages and we can use Pipp install at the command line to install these external packages.
By installing Python from Python or or by installing the Anaconda's distribution as shown earlier in
this course you actually have already installed.
Pip Pip is a simple way to download packages at your command line directly from the pipe repository.
Now there are packages already created for almost any use case you can think of.
Python is a hugely popular language and it's growing very quickly so that means if you ever want to
work with Python with some other external use case maybe you want to make web development of Python
so you would Google around and eventually discover that there's libraries such as Django or Flast for
web development of Python or maybe have a more specific use case like working with PDSA of Python or
working with Excel documentation with Python.
In that case you can always do a quick Google search and almost always the links that come up first
are either at the pipe pipe page for the package or the package documentation and will show you a little
exercise of what a good google search looks like.
So we're going to quickly do now is show you how to download and install external packages to do this
will open up our browser.
But we're also going to keep working at our command line.
So remember for Windows users that means open up your command prompt.
And for Mac OS and Linux users that means open up your terminal.
So let's have a browser open along with our command prompt.
OK so here I am at my command line and let's show you how to install a package that's hosted on Type-I
something you do need to be aware of.
Is that your firewall may block Pipp from accessing the Internet.
So if you're on a work network or you're on a work computer you don't have full admin permissions you
may need to check that or talk to your network administrator.
But let's move on.
And we're all going to do.
Here is type p p install space and then here's where you would actually put in your package name.
So there are a ton of packages out there.
We're going to start with a package that you may already have installed because you've installed Anaconda
and that's the request package which allows you to request information from web sites online.
So this is just a general syntax of how you would download a package.
Notice here I'm typing this directly into the command line or directly onto my terminal or command prompt
and not actually calling Python first.
Is a command line utility so you hit enter here and you may get the requirement already satisfied.
Most likely if you install the anaconda you already have requests installed.
So this is what it looks like when you already have it.
What I'm going through now is a library that you most likely do not have yet.
And that's the color Ramah library and it is just a bit of a silly library that allows you to print
out colorize text at your command prompt or at your terminal.
So type Pipp install Kalorama.
Notice the spelling here.
Enter And we actually already have an install because I ran this line already so we're going to do now
is run the actual Colorada external package that we just installed.
So what I'm going to do now is type python and let's try checking out Colorada.
So to do this it's actually quite simple.
All it needs to do is say from color Rahma import in it and then on the next line call in it.
So basically is a bit of an initialization function that allows you to set up depending on what platform
you're using and then what we can do is say from color Ramah import and what we're going to do here
is say import for.
So that's capital F O R E which stands for foreground and then I will create a print statement that
says for Dot.
And then in all caps read plus and I will just say some read text and then hit enter.
And now you see I have a text and we can do that for a variety of colors so I can say now print for
green plus switch to green and now it's green.
So again just a very simple library that allows you to incorporate color directly at your command line.
This is not a library we will ever really be using again but it's just something fun that you can play
with and you can check out the doc documentation simply by Google searching Colorada.
What I want to show you now.
Let me quit out of this Python session.
Show you how you would actually create a Google search and what kind of things to expect to pop up when
you are looking for an external package that you may not know ahead of time.
So for example let's try to solve the problem of trying to work Excel files in Python and figure out
a package that allows us to do that.
So we are looking for a Python package for any particular workflow.
It's always best to just a simple Google search and I know hopefully this is pretty obvious but a lot
of times the best thing to do and pretty much everybody does this no matter how experienced developer
or they are is it just google search Python package for and then whatever they're looking for whether
it's Excel for PDA apps and you should always end up seeing the top results some sort of link to helpful
information.
So start off with the example for Excel.
And as we scroll down we'll eventually see Python excel or and if you click on that link it actually
reports back a bunch of packages that are available.
Open my Excel excel or the execute tills a ton of stuff that you can play around with.
So then we end up doing is you either go to the documentation or you go straight to the download link.
And typically when you go to the download link it takes you to the Python software foundation Web site
for pipeline.
So why Python python.
And here's just official information about the actual package depending on how big the packages if it
has more users.
It almost always has a separate documentation page and the documentation will be linked somewhere in
the top few lines so you click here and pipe Packer's documentation and it will take you to the official
documentation for that actual package.
And a lot of times they're hosted by read the docs thought I know.
So now here we see some nice documentation and all we can do is figure out how to install it from this
documentation.
Or typically we end up realizing it's it's always just typin stall.
And then the name of the actual package.
So we know that it's open Pikesville.
Let's now go back to our command line install it.
So then here back or our command line we're going to do is say Pipp install open pie Excel enter and
I've actually already run this before but that's how you would install a package from the internet from
pipe pipe and then later on you could call it Python and then you should be able to import open pie
excel with no issues.
That's the basics of using Pipp install with Python and figuring out what external packages are a good
fit for you.
Hope those are useful.
If you have any questions feel free to post the Q&A forms.
Coming up next we're going to learn how to create our own modules and packages using Python.
We'll see if there.